EXAM: CT Abdomen and Pelvis with Contrast 1/17/2013 4:35 PM
 
CLINICAL HISTORY: Umbilical hernia enlarging in size. 
 
COMPARISON: October 1, 2010
 
TECHNIQUE: Contiguous 1.25-mm axial images were acquired of the abdomen and pelvis following the uneventful administration of IV contrast. Delayed images through the kidneys were obtained. Images were reformatted in the coronal and sagittal planes.
 
Based on a 32 cm body phantom, the estimated radiation dose (CTDIvol [mGy]) for each series in the exam is: 18.54, 13.68 mGy, respectively. The estimated cumulative dose (DLP [mGy-cm]) is: 1154 mGy-cm.
 
NOTE: The radiation dose indicators for CT -- the 'volume CT Dose Index' (CTDIvol) given in milli-Gray (mGy), and the Dose Length Product (DLP) given in mGy-centimeters (mGy-cm) are generated from the CT scanner to estimate radiation exposure based on study parameters and a reference phantom. The CTDI and DLP may therefor substantially over or underestimate an individual's absorbed dose based on patient size and other factors.
 
 
CONTRAST: Omnipaque 350, 110 mL.
 
FINDINGS:
 
The lung bases are clear without focal consolidation or pleural effusion. There is mild scarring at the lung base on the left. The visualized portion of the heart is normal in size without pericardial effusion.
 
The liver is normal in size and homogeneous in attenuation. There are scattered punctate calcifications throughout the liver and spleen. There is no intra-or extrahepatic biliary ductal dilatation. The spleen, adrenal glands, and pancreas appear normal. The gallbladder is absent. The kidneys demonstrate normal symmetric contrast enhancement and excretion. There is no hydroureteronephrosis.
 
There is a diverticulum off the duodenum. There is mild sigmoid diverticulosis without evidence for diverticulitis. Otherwise, the bowel is normal in caliber without evidence of obstruction or abnormal bowel wall thickening.Appendix normal. There is no evidence of free fluid or free air. There is significant metal artifact from bilateral total hip arthroplasties limiting evaluation of the pelvis. The urinary bladder and remainder of the pelvic organs are unremarkable. The retroperitoneum and mesentery demonstrate no pathologically enlarged lymph nodes. There is mild atherosclerosis. 
 
A small fat-containing umbilical hernia is seen measuring again 1.7 cm without evidence of transition infarction.
 
Evaluation of the bones demonstrates no acute abnormality. Degenerative changes of the lumbar spine are seen.
 
 
IMPRESSION:
 
1. STABLE FAT CONTAINING UMBILICAL HERNIA MEASURING 1.7 CM WITHOUT EVIDENCE FOR STRANGULATION OR INFARCTION.
 
2. DIVERTICULOSIS WITHOUT EVIDENCE FOR DIVERTICULITIS.
 
SUMMARY: 2-ABNORMAL, PREVIOUSLY REPORTED 
